Welcome back in in this lesson we're going to look at forms.
So let's go ahead and create an h t l form and this will give us something to work with with him our
Javascript.
So we've got our form here and let's ask for a first name and we'll do an input set and put the equals
text and we'll give it an ID.
So this one will be the one
and we'll give it a default value.
So it's got a default value there and do a line break and we'll also do last name
so just uppercase that and this one will be a last name so this will be e to and we can put a last name
into there.
And then lastly let's do one more thing and let's add an input button type equals button.
And what I want to happen is when the user clicks the buttons so on click
so on click we want to send in full and we're going to create a function in order to send in full and
value is going to be
something that we can close that off and we can also close off the form.
So now let's go into our script and what we want to do is we need to make a function that fires off
whenever we're trying to send information.
So function
and this one is called Send in full
and let's output our information into over here so we want to output the first name and the last name
and output it into the ID wrapper.
So let's set up another function and this one will be called message.
So this will take in one argument and this is basically the output message and documents get element
by D.
And so we're going to deposit that information into our in our aged hymnal.
So whatever gets passed in to this function we're going to simply deposit it within that age to a male.
So let's do a message and let's test at first.
So just make sure that everything's working go back refresh the page submit.
So everything is working.
So what we want to do is we want to grab the values of that element and we want to input it within our
to him.
So what we wanted to do is introduce you to another default so we saw that we can pass this and we get
information about this particular element but we also saw a console log out or a console directory.
And we've got an event object.
So this is automatically triggered as an event.
So depending on if a button gets clicked or some type of event happens within the window we can pick
it up as the event object.
So let me show you what gets put.
So go back refreshed the page and open up our console and then now when I submit it we have a mouse
event that's been triggered.
So we see that within this mouse event we've got a ton of information and we also know that element
that we're actually actually firing this event off so we can get that information from Target.
So if I was to update the code and instead of just event I did event target go back refreshed the page
and let me show you what happens.
Now when I click it we actually get that input element.
So now we can actually make use of that and we can traverse through here and I can get that information
that's contained within the rest of the forum because I know that it's got some siblings.
I know that it's got a parent and it's got a shared parent to those first two elements.
So let's go down and we see that we've got the parent element.
So this will bring us up one level and within that parent we see that we've got the two children.
So we've got the children.
No.
So we've got the two children.
So you've got the two inputs within there as well.
So we can go back down and we can grab that information when we go up to the parent element.
So let me show you how to do this.
So going into your editor.
So if I do parent element and one more time will refresh it and will open up the console.
And when we submit it.
So now we're getting the form.
So just as we saw before we actually can traverse down and we've got a number of children there so we've
got e one and eat two.
So if I want to get the value from each one I can simply do the one
and as we saw earlier that we can do the value so save that refresh the form.
And now when I submit it we're actually grabbing that first elements information.
So what I want you to do now is pause the video and grab all of this information from both elements
without having to do get element by ID or anything like that just traverse through what's available
using the advanced target.
So notice that we're not passing anything here either that this is just an event that we know that has
just been triggered and this information is being sent.
So we can pick up that event information as it just got triggered.
And what I want you to do is put it within that div the ID wrapper with the ID wrapper.
So take a few minutes open up your editor and try it out and I'll get to show you a solution.
Coming up sopan an opportunity to try that.
So usually what I want.
What I like to do is I like to create a variable in order to hold all of this information and that way
it just makes it look a lot simpler to be able to get that information.
So we know that this is a parent element.
So now I can traverse down and I can go to each one and I can do value.
So that's my first value and leaving a space there.
And then I know I can grab my easy to value and place that afterwards.
So to and this is going to be wrong.
So just maybe just get rid of the console there and generate welcome.
So now let's try it out and refresh the page.
And now we've got welcome.
So if I change the name it updates as well so we can put whatever value we want in there and we can
always grab that information without actually having to to grab it from that particular element.
So if we had another form and this one was the exact same thing
and there's one other change that I do want to make.
So we know that with IDS we can't have we can't have more than one form with the same ID.
So let's add this and change it to name and the same thing here.
So name and let's use the same function for this one as well.
And update both of them to be name.
Save it.
And we're happy to do anything different with our function.
So let's let's try this.
So when we test it we can have one name here and we can have another name appear and we can do all of
this by simply just having that one function that we could call.
We don't need to have any additional information in there and it's as easy as that to add this type
of functionality was just that one function that can carry all of this load and by traversing through
the selected element that element that triggered off the event we don't even need any additional information.
Of course we could have used this we could have passed this within the function parameters and picked
it up there and we could have done the same thing.
But sometimes it's just easier to go with event target because that's going to be the same thing as
passing through this.
But you don't actually have to pass any parameters through that event handler.